# Joint Foundation Bootstrap Team Meeting 2018-12-03

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9G9ufEYPSs
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/51

## Present

- Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
- Jory Burson (@jorydotcom)
- Saleh Abdel Motaal (@SMotaal)
- Stefan Thomas (@justmoon)
- Manil Chowdhury (@chowdhurian)
- Tracy Hinds (@hackygolucky)
- Adam Miller (@amiller-gh)
- Christian Bromann (@bromann)

## Agenda

Extracted from **bootstrap-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### Update on Progress (10 minutes)

* doc: initial version of CPC Charter [#48](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/48)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - build context and revisit in larger conversation later in meeting

@mhdawson not on call (vacation) Punted to next week.

* [WIP] PROJECT PROGRESSION [#45](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/45)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - build context and revisit in larger conversation later in meeting

Jory: Effort to adapt CNCF progression policy for Bootstrap. Seems to be satisfactory. Outstanding details required for tracking success, actual staging levels, etc. At the broadest stage of exploration and at a point to explore other details as a stage 1 proposal.

Myles: Brief tangent to review proposal stages and ask the room about their views of how the staging process should function. Ask: Is it okay to land proposals as stage 1 and then iterate with PRs?

> General consensus on landing early and iterating in smaller chunks.

### Discussion (45 minute timebox)

* How often / when do we meet? [#21](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/21)
  - 5 minute timebox

Myles: Review of alternating 2pm/9am (EST) meeting. On last 9am meeting we had good attendance and a number of people saying they can not make the 2pm EST meeting.

* Moving forward with keeping the two alternating meeting.
* issue closed

* EXPECTATIONS stage 0 [#41](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/41)
  - 15 minute timebox

Tracy: Ask that we move to be in stage 1, and will work toward stage 2. Trying to weed out “minimum viable product” for this PR. Expectations doc should not be details, just high level requirements. Not seeing many JSF folks involved in this PR! Three things: 1) Questions around the Node.js board seat requirement; 2) C3 structure and representation; 3) Membership to projects.

Jory: JSF having a group meeting soon, but largely there have been no objections to the Node.js board seet.

Tracy: Wants some more clarifying around: Does Node.js always have a board seat? Is the concept of “constellation project” formalized? Etc?

ACTION_ITEM: Adam to add “Unresolved Questions” section to the proposals template.
ACTION_ITEM: Tracy to add “Unresolved Questions” to #41 and prepare to merge as stage 1.
ACTION_ITEM: Jory to integrate similar section to #45 (Project Progression)

* Drafting initial governance for merged foundation [#33](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/33)
  - 25 minute timebox
  - Refs:
    - What does C3 look like? [#38](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/38)
    - What does the CPC look like? [#37](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/37)
    - [WIP] PROJECT PROGRESSION [#45](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/45)
    - doc: initial version of CPC Charter [#48](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/48)
    - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qUcvZz4wmQtwcWu9rWjxFNmWw5plD9-4_7mtvQvCegk/edit#slide=id.p

Jory: There is a muddying of some concepts going on. Commons.js is not a stage, but a “program” where Foundation can offer services to projects that are not in the Foundation. Then, we have “stages” (sandbox, incubation, member project, constellation). Slightly conflated, possibly too complex, would like to hear peoples’ thoughts.

Tierney: “Constellation project” is more like a label to projects that meet the criteria. It’s not so much a stage as a classification of project.

Myles: Can’t imagine Constellation Projects that aren’t top level project, but may step back further from the “buckets” convo. We have three (3) different types of projects: 1) Those not in the foundation, but want an interaction with foundation services. Ex: Package Maintenance project just kicking off in Node.js. Foundation sees this as more of a program. If we set that aside we then have 2) Projects with the intent of becoming a Top Level Project (TLP) and 3) Those that don’t have an interest in becoming a TLP and interacting with higher level governance bits..

Jory: Why would a project want to be in the Foundation but not a TLP?

Myles: For legal and IP assistance that wouldn’t be provided as part of Commons.js. Ex: Libuv and Express. Intent is to not make undue process for projects that aren’t interested in it. So, to take Tierney’s “labeling” metaphor, incubating is another “label” for projects in Sandbox where it is going through the Foundation program to graduate to a TLP. 

Myles: How do we maintain equity in representation if projects of different sizes make it to TLP and (currently as written) receive representation on the CPC?

Jory: We (JSF) have projects that are top level that have quite the deep adoption but not nearly as many contributors. I know a lot of the projects are interested in at least not regressing from where they are. Most are expecting to come in at whatever level they are now. There are some exceptions – a number of maintainers believe another category would make more sense – but we’re also not at the point where we can put a proposal in front of them and ask what level would work best for them. ~12 graduated projects in JSF that will need to be fit in.

Tracy: Do we require a certain level of engagement of TLPs?

Jory: Been describing it like this: Node.js as “constellation project” and get board seat, others are TLP and engage on CPC level.

Myles: Interested in exploring a TC39 type model for CPC. More open attendance. Ex: “Any member of any TSC of any TLP can attend a CPC meeting”. Do have a bit of concern with the “Constellation Project” (CP) designation. It may limit growth because we can’t just keep adding board seats for CPs. We need to figure out CPC and C3 responsibilities and function before thinking about CPs.
Adam: Joe is interested in holding a dedicated breakout meeting for CPC + C3 concerns. 

> General interest expressed for that meeting.

ACTION_ITEM: Joe Sepi to hold breakout meeting next week at this time.

Myles: If we can get light consensus on buckets and project progression, we can do a survey of JSF projects on what they think and where they’d like to slot in.

Andrew Updegrove: It's worth noting the difference between being able to communicate with the boar and being on the board - this is something that has been discussed in the past at Node.js. Board meetings are short and focused on making business decisions, and aren't very good mechanisms for making community issues known and for them to be discussed. Also, having a large board that meets by phone gets difficult. So you may wish to discuss what your goals are and how best to fulfill them. Having fewer board seats but more mechanisms for meeting with representatives of the Board may serve the merged entity better in the future as it grows larger. 

Myles: Much of what was decided happened outside of board meetings. Board was largely sign off on recommendations from elsewhere.

Adam: When we get “light consensus” of project progression we need fairly explicit expectations of project reps at each level.  That can help guide JSF projects’ choice on where they’d like to slot in.

Tierney: From the past few months of having a CommComm board seat and generally participating on more Foundation-y things, I’ve not substantially seen things that are a barrier that we wouldn’t be able to do without board representation. By the day I’m less and less convinced that this is something we need to be as focused on. I’m concerned we’re over-indexing on this. It’s an important one, but is it a 4-5 meeting one? Most versions of proposals so far are fair, and haven’t taken issue with them.

Myles: Challenge here is making sure we have by-laws that are flexible enough that we as a community can move in a direction that makes sense. One bit to add: The JSF has the TAC made up of reps from not just projects, but also from companies. The more committees we have with varied representation the smoothing things will get through the board level for approval. Jory, what kinds of structures can we be building out to encourage this cross collaboration.

Jory: In addition to graduated projects, we have TAC chari, community reps, a couple of folks from member companies, etc. We are largely a low-flow committee mostly focused on eval project proposals and providing mentorship / support. Not a particularly heavy scope of work. The group mix is good, not a lot of tension.

Tierney: I would like to suggest that if we do go down the path of member companies participating in the TAC, that they recuse themselves when reviewing project proposals that compete with an element or product of their business.  I would be able to comfortably +1 it at that point. 

Tracy: Part of this is trust and professionalism. When you have multiple votes this becomes less of an issue.

Myles: We already have these conflicts just through collaboratorship – its a problem we have to deal with anyways.

Tierney: Agrees, rescind statement.

Myles: How do we make the Foundation more approachable. The Town Halls have been good for this. With regular board meetings we don’t have outreach *unless* you have that board seat. Do we make that regular Town Hall meeting a proposal? The more we create an ecosystem for collaboration the better this will be.

ACTION_ITEM: Myles to write program proposal for regular board Town Halls.

Myles: Can we just dedicate next meeting to CPC + C3?

Tracy: We need the dedicated time to hash out the details here. Then we can likely go offline with the convo.
