# Joint Foundation Bootstrap Team Meeting 2018-10-22

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3FlBn7fbfI
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/14

## Present
- Joe Sepi (@joesepi)
- Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
- Richard Gibson (@gibson042)
- Saleh Abdel Motaal (@SMotaal)
- Adam Miller (@amiller-gh)
- Ben Michel (@obensource)
- Thomas Watson (@watson) - Elastic, Node.js Foundation Diagnostics WG
- Daniel Appelquist (@torgo) - Samsung, JS Foundation Board
- Brian LeRoux (@brianleroux)
- Charlie Robbins (@indexzero) - GoDaddy, Node.js Foundation Board Member
- Ryan Block (@ryan)
- Samuel Gordalina (@gordalina)
- Matteo Collina (@mcollina) - NearForm, Node.js TSC
- Ziran Sun - Samsung, JS Foundation TAC
- Manil Chowdhury (@chowdhurian) - InVision, Node.js CommComm 
- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
- Jory Burson (@jorydotcom) 
- Sam Ruby (@rubys)
- Zibby Keaton (@zibbykeaton) Linux Foundation employee mar/comms member of Node.js and JS Foundation
- Andy Updegrove (@Adversego)
- James Snell (@jasnell)
- Steven Ayr
- Christopher Hiller (@boneskull) JSF Project Owner
- Christian Bromann (@bromann)
- Sarah Novotny (@sarahnovotny)
- Rich Trott (@Trott)
- Hassan Sani (@inidaname) Node.js Africa

## Agenda

### Introductions (5 minute timebox)

* Quick introductions of everyone on the call
  * Went around the 22 panelists and did intros.

### Discussion (50 minute timebox)

* Guiding principles, concerns, general operations [#9](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/9)
  
  - 20 minute timebox
  - Refs:
    - doc: add vision and mission [#1](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/1)
    - How do we govern this group? [#2](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/2)
    - Add initial mission statement drafts from Governance Discussions

  * James, no too much to add, there have been a number of proposal just have to agree
  * Myles, first question is around membership
    * James made suggestion that it be anybody who is collaborator in any of the repos
    * Adam, other alternatives mentioned have been TSC, CommComm, TAC, but favors anybody 
      with commit bit (first suggestion).
      * Related question is who runs the meetings etc.
      * 
  * Myles, questions, should there ever be voting?
    * James, no unless group is make final decisions. If we just make recommendations then
      no need to vote.
  * Dan, agree with basic idea that anybody who is participating in the projects, but would
    enlarge to include the board
  * Invited members to this call were
    * Node.js Members: @nodejs/members
    * JSF Project Maintainers
    * JSF TAC
    * Node.js Foundation Board of Directors
    * JSF Board of Directors

  * Jory: need more outreach to project leads, specifically allowing delegation within projects
  * Michael: should there ever be anyone outside this group joining this meeting?
    * Jory: if they have an applicable reason to be there, and are not just there as bystanders.
  * Adam: what does membership give you
    * commit rights to bootstrap repo
    * invited to meetings
    * participate in consensus seeking process
  * Myles: do we need a team in the repo
  
  * How often and when do we meet:
    * 2 PM Monday was initial suggestion
    * Does conflict with an existing meeting
    * Myles, could have rotating meeting time. Dan we will need to have updated Cal feed if they
      are changing.
  * Kick back to github to explore alternating meeting times

* Process for landing things to the repo?
  * When do we believe it is consensus?
  * Myles, for example core repo 72 hours then can land, modules needs consensus in a meeting
    * Also we don’t have quorum rules for this group yet, so it’s unclear if we’re at consensus.

  * Jory what does “landing” mean.  
    * agreed, or just for discussion

  * Adam, step back and looking at deliverables might help
    * deliverables
       * Recommendations for Governance documents charters, etc
       * Program ideas for day to day governance
    * Myles, hitting timebox
    * Manil, this brings different people together all of who might have different processes
      * Good to have distinction between actively worked, versus “fina” or “done”
    * Myles, kickoff discussion GitHub
    * Jory could borrow TC39 staging process (stage 0, working doc)
      * Jory took action item to propose that process on the repo.

* Membership of the group, who can participate:
Anyone with commit rights to member orgs?
 [#4](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/4)
    - First Pass at Bootstrap Process [#7](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/7)


* the JSF [#5](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/5)
  - 10 minute timebox
  * A number of things mentioned in terms of inconsistencies, in particularly between
    involvement of Node.js and JS teams
  * Jory appreciate that it is part of the discussion, but not sure it needs too much
    discussion. Will continue to bring past experience from Dojo, JS foundation etc.
  * Brian: liked the way the JS Foundation allowed projects to own their destiny, and am
    Positive on how this has started (“Yay us”)

* Seek to understand and resolve foundation bylaw differences [#8](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/8)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - focus on intent and how people can contribute
  * Sam 
    * Reviewed the 2 bylaws for line by line differences.  
    * Opened another issue with major differences
  * Sarah, don’t have a process for making a recommendation.  Don’t spend time making it
     Bylaws language.
  * Sam agree we don’t need to select specific language, but do need to have something more
    concrete to be successful.  
    * JSF one seems to be better starting point
    * Key difference is that Node.js allows non-corporate members on the board
  
* Discuss what we are delivering end of month:
  * Refs:
    * Create expectations for foundation draft [#6](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/6)
  * 15 minute timebox
  - Focus on consensus around deliverable and schedule
  * At end of last board meeting, were thinking about ways to move things forward in 
    parallel with Governance.  What was requested was Myles suggestion of requirements
    for end of October, then board to come back by November bylaws.
    * Feedback was that felt like black box as opposed to collaboration
    * Would be good to try to stick to goals to have something by the end of this month
    * Tracy opened #6 to discuss
  * Myles, are we comfortable creating a doc like this, what should doc look like
  * Jory looking at bylaw work by Sam, and #6, seems like it falls into 2 categories
    * legal/Bylaw related
    * More project governance focussed
  * Adam, (governance, program) lines up with the 2 areas believed we’d have to work
  * Andrew
    * Both bylaws come from the same model
    * Much of it is laid out by statute, so pretty much needs to stay the way it is
    * Sections which do merit a lot of attention like
      * composition of board
      * composition of committees
      * what it takes to amend bylaws
      * how decisions are made
      * different classes of members and who/how gets on the board
    * Makes sense to look at bylaws as corporate governance and all technical
      work outside of the bylaws.
    * From process point of view, is to pick one and look for what you want to change
      (as suggested by Sam?), provide bullet point list of things you want to change.
  * Adam, Sam did a lot of good work to compare the 2.  Believe we should get something in that
    people can PR against. 2 options
      * Land JS one and let people start PR’ing
  * other is get list of questions that we need community answer for
  * Andrew could highlight the boilerplate sessions.
  * Michael land, with strikethrough for what is not changeable.
  * Myles, alternative can also make high level bullet points as we may lose people 
  * Jory agree that identifying where the language is not the same, can use those as discussion
    points
  * Andrew will connect with Sam Ruby to compare notes and move forward

* 9 days left in the month
  * Myles are we comfortable that we are going to be able to make that?
  * Jory we should ask for more time.
  * Myles will communicate that, and also talk about making it more collaborative
  * Dan believe we already agreed we should make it more collaborative.

* Tentatively assume that we will be meeting at the same time next week.




