# Joint Foundation Bootstrap Team Meeting 2018-11-25

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-891aDg_iXM
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/49

## Present

- Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
- Andy Updegrove (@aupdegrove)
- Steve Tuck
- Steven Ayr
- Sarah Novotny
- Saleh Abdel Motaal (@SMotaal)
- Mike Dolan (@mkdolan)
- Hassan Sani (@inidaname)
- Daniel Appelquist
- Sendil Kumar (@sendilkumarn)
- Russ Schlossbach
- Agiri
- Dan Appelquist (@torgo)
- Joe Sepi (@joesepi)

## Agenda

Extracted from **bootstrap-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### Update on Progress (15 minutes)

* chore: Update README.md with repo description and jargon definitions. [#40](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/40)
  - Myles gave a summary of the PR, any thoughts or concerns before we land it?
  - No objections, good to move forward with it as it is currently written.

* doc: initial version of CPC Charter [#48](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/48)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - build context and revisit in larger conversation later in meeting
  - Michael Dawson: Reviewed differences between existing charters (JSF, CNCF)
  - No questions raised 

* [WIP] PROJECT PROGRESSION [#45](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/45)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - build context and revisit in larger conversation later in meeting
  - Myles provided an overview of Jory’s Project Progression and the stages.
    - Myles was referring to changes shown here: https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/45/files
  - Myles noted there are comments already and discussion going on currently.
  - Myles suggested landing it at Stage 0 would seem appropriate and then working through any further edits. The text wouldn’t need to be locked down until Stage 2 so there’s room to address the open comments and create edits.

### Discussion (40 minute timebox)

* How often and when do we meet [#21](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/21)
  - 5 minute timebox
  - Dan noted the later time option is more challenging for him 
  - The 2pm US Eastern Time has had slightly (16 this week, 20 last week) better attendance and it was discussed that next week we’ll decide to move it officially
  - Please fill out the [spreadsheet](https://goo.gl/wztdhs) if there’s a better time we should be considering

* EXPECTATIONS stage 0 [#41](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/41)
  - 15 minute timebox
  - Myles reviewed the current status of the Expectations document and the current open comments
  - Sarah noted that the language could be more inclusive as the goal should be one organization working together
  - Michael noted the Node.js Board seat was omitted and should be the starting point for discussion. Michael noted he wanted to see this and knew others had a similar expectation. Myles noted the TSC should consider who that rep might be and get them ready.
  - Myles also noted that following the Staging process, this could probably move in and the changes made until Stage 2.
  - Agreement on the call was to move it to Stage 0 so long as all the parts not currently with consensus will be documented.
  - Alternatively Michael suggested -> Agreement was to take it back to github to discuss board seats
     and after that is resolved it can land.

* Drafting initial governance for merged foundation [#33](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/33)
  - 25 minute timebox
  - Refs:
    - What does C3 look like? [#38](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/38)
    - What does the CPC look like? [#37](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/37)
    - [WIP] PROJECT PROGRESSION [#45](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/45)
    - doc: initial version of CPC Charter [#48](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/48)
  - Myles provided an overview of the issues opened to help fill out the presentation with details of the governance
  - Michael provided an overview of open questions in each issue
  - Joe walked through the potential areas of focus for the C3. Doc that Adam and others had helped with: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JvU3RW8zhSw7VEIf5eDO_po4LJL-T2bNjgKrdutfi2s/edit 
  - including community cultivation, advocacy and support, mentorship, end user feedback and support, inclusivity and diversity, language documentation and auditing, event tooling and conference/meetup resources, social media resources (e.g. guidance on tone, crisis response), swag
  - Michael noted it was interesting to look at a similar document drafted for the CPC
   * ensuring collaboration is the driving principle within a Project, between
     _$FOUNDATION_ Projects, and between _$FOUNDATION_ Projects and the broader
     community.
   * defining and maintaining neutral consensus for the technical vision for the _$FOUNDATION_
   * approving new projects within the scope for _$FOUNDATION_ set by the Governing Board,
     as outlined in [XXXX], and creating conceptual architecture for how the projects
     fit together.
   * aligning projects, removing or archiving projects, as outlined in [XXXX].
   * defining common practices to be implemented across _$FOUNDATION_ projects, if any.
   * The CPC is also responsible for mediating technical conflicts between
     _$FOUNDATION_ Projects when attempts to resolve those conflicts within the Project
    and were unsuccessful. 
   * The CPC serves as the $FOUNDATION's primary technical liaison body with external open source projects, consortiums and groups and is also responsible for technical participation in standards bodies
     liaison body with external open source pro 
  - Dan asked how code of conduct [and escalation] issues would be handled by the CPC or C3. Michael discussed having both getting involved with an appeal process. Dan proffered a suggestion that the Foundation could provide additional resources that the Foundation could provide. Dan suggested it may be a challenge to have both committees discuss and work through. Given the details around the topic, Dan suggested it might be useful to raise this question for further discussion. Sarah and Dan discussed any additional resources should be on a pull basis from the community. 
  - Discussion ensued on the separation of responsibilities. Myles noted that governing bodies should be serving the projects and viewed that way. 
  - Dan asked if it would be possible to discuss merging the two structures. Michael noted it would be helpful to have Tracy for that discussion.
  - Michael noted the discussion about how people get elected to these bodies could influence how people perceive the importance of one or two groups. Michael noted in the CNCF and JSF charters there are different models for how people get onto the committees and that may impact whether people are comfortable with one or two.
  - Mike noted that other projects tried to embed a quality control and what this community may want to achieve is more inclusive volunteering. We could discuss having an open volunteer driven body and just limit the “voting” to just the elements that could use a quality control review. 
