# Joint Foundation Bootstrap Team Meeting 2019-01-28

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ArdC3FIlkWk
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/86

## Present
* Brian Warner (@brianwarner)
* Joe Sepi (@joesepi)
* Jory Burson (@jorydotcom)
* Brian Kardell (@bkardell)
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Stefan Thomas (@justmoon)
* Christian Bromann (@bromann)
* Ben Michel (@obensource)
* Russ Schlossbach
* Steven Ayr (@stevenayr)
* Saleh Abdel Motaal (@smotaal) - joined mid way
* Kaitlyn Barnard (@kbarnard10)

## Agenda

Extracted from **bootstrap-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### Discussion (55 minute timebox)

* Individual Membership
  - 25 minute timebox
  - Refs:
    - Create Individual Membership program proposal [#81](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/81)
    - Create Individual Membership representation proposal [#82](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/82)
 
 * Tracy have a number of discussions/comments but no outright objections.  We can probably
   move to stage 1
 * 2 things Tracy would like feedback on.  Need feedback from the JS Foundation members
   as this came from the Node.js Foundation and was moved to be applicable to the merged
   foundation.  If this does not make sense it does not necessarily need to be across the whole
   Foundation.
   * Jory JS members are pretty open to the concept. Biggest area of feedback is understanding
     what the cost of administering the program versus the benefits. Comes from the experience
     Of running one under the JQuery foundation.  For JQuery foundation only got ~100 
     members and overhead certainly overshadowed cost received in terms of member $.
    * Tracy original Node.js program also had low numbers, that was one of the reasons we
      wanted to update it. Was not seen to be a profit center but value was in relationship with 
      larger group of people. Cost is projected to be ~$2600 range for software/election
      software/management.  
    * Jory, what percentage of your time were you doing it as an employee versus open source
      time. 
    * Tracy, paid time was on facilitating tooling challenges. Open source time was a lot of
      passive time, maybe an hour or two a week. Except for when the tooling went south. 
      New tooling will address this issue, as we won’t move forward unless we can get tooling
    * When discussed, would be owned by community committee as acknowledgement that there
      is time required. This would be passed on to CPC. But most work should be in
      sub-committee or in projects.
    * Jory how many individual members.
    * Tracy at peak, after reduced membership bundle as part of conference attendance ->300.
      This is one of the reasons we worked on a new proposal. Belief is that we did not
      have enough incentive for people to join.  There is also a minimum threshold to have a
      director (2000 in proposal). 
    * Jory do you believe it will be more successful for all projects and not just Node.js?
    * Tracy, we needed people from outside the project.
    * Michael, what was the cost for JQuery
    * Jory, you could contribute any amount but min $25 or $50 to have your avatar on the site
    * Tracy, it was also free if you were already a Node.js collaborator
    * Jory .net program, going to ask people to apply for individual member and provide links for
      evidence that they were connected to the program.
    * Jory, JS foundation members in general would likely be receptive, from her perspective
      could likely simplify. 

  * In Node.js foundation individual members are actually a formal membership class.  It is not
    that common that it is formalized in this way and we can still have a membership program
    without that.
    * Tracy, only challenge is that Mike Dolan is not here.  Can’t remember if mentioned in the
      board member.  Tracy’s view (individual view only) believe it is helpful to have a class, in 
      order to to maintain accountability.  Mike Dolan could probably better explain why you would
      or would not need it. Previously board rep was tied to membership class.  Defer discussion
      next time when Mike Dolan is here.
    * Michael if after several years we only had 100 members we would likely want to reconsider
      so we should consider how hard it would be to address if there was a class
    * Brian Warner, it is something that is easier to add than to drop so should be part of the
      discussion.
* Codes of Conduct
  - 10 minute timebox
  - Refs:
    - doc: add initial CoC wording [#80](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/pull/80)
    - Clarify Intentions around Project Codes of Conduct 
  * Jory, Ziran? did some research and good to share some of what she found.
    * 6 adopted 1.3 or 1.4 of Contributor Covenant
    * 8 adopted the JS Foundation CoC which was a variant of the Contributor Covenant
    * 11 did not have a CoC listed
    * Seems to indicated that projects are not necessarily clear what to do and are 
      willing to follow recommendations or did not know what to do.
   * Michael no evidence of active choice of not having one?
     * Jory all projects had to agree to have one, so not choice not to have one but
       instead more likely lack of follow through.
     * Jory escalation path is likely ok provided they know what it is, can influence it, 
       get training.
   * Michael what about members on panel?
     * Jory ->maybe more than one external person as we may not get enough diversity
   * Tracy, recommendation from past experiences that escalation that has not gone well.

[#75](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/75)

* Define 'Open Governance' requirements for Top Level Projects 

[#74](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/74)
  - 10 minute timebox

* Jory: Feedback we’ve had so far on #74 has been incorporated into stage 2 project
  progression proposal.  If you want to comment or tweak please review/comment on PR #88.

* Name of $Foundation [#84](https://github.com/nodejs/bootstrap/issues/84)
  * Brian Warner, right time for discussion?
  * Mike/Myles want to avoid that it is the last blocking issue
  * Can talk about it here or setup separate call.
  * 3 major options
    * Node.js Foundation
    * JS Foundation
    * Something new, advantage of being fresh but requires trademark searches etc.
  * Brian strong opinions on options
    * Jory, use JS Foundation until/when/if we find an alternative. Also nice olive branch since
      the JS Foundation will be the dissolving Foundation.
    * Michael from Node.js side will there be concern
    * Tracy, we have heard that brands that are focussed on Node.js anything that does not
       Include Node.js would lessen their interest.
    * Brian we should also consider how prominent will the Foundation versus the projects
      themselves.  Focus should be on projects.  So does name really matter in terms of
      Node.js. CNCF example would say no.
    * Jory +1 that goal for Foundation is that it's the platform for the Projects to take 
      center stage versus focussing on the Projects.
    * Joe, what about companies being able to allocate money for projects, would that
      help address name issues. 
    * Jory, great point and some projects on the JS side add.  
    * Michael good point, agree we need to capture the path for $’s flowing to projects.
    * Brian is going to setup separate meeting to discuss naming. +1 this issue if you are
      interested in being invited.
    * Jory volunteered to do initial draft for directed funding.

