# OpenJS Foundation Bootstrap Team Meeting 2019-03-25

## Links

* **Recording**:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KZocCnm_ACo
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/128

## Present

- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
- Jory Burson (@jorydotcom)
- Brian Warner (@brianwarner)
- Todd Moore (@tmmoore_1)
- Manil Chowdhury (@keywordnew)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb)
- Tracy Hinds (@hackygolucky)
- Steven Ayr (@stevenayr)
- Joe Sepi (@joesepi)
- Steve Tuck (@sdtuck)
- LaRuaNa (@LaRuaNa)
- Hassan Sani (@inidaname)

## Agenda

Extracted from **bootstrap-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **OpenJS org** prior to the meeting.

### openjs-foundation/bootstrap

* cpc-charter: do not dictate how the Node.js board member is elected [#127](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/pull/127)
  * Tweaks wording, to let the Node.js project decide on how votes will be held.
  * No objections, Myles will squash and merge.

* Myles will open PR to move CPC charter to stage 3 after final review by board
  * Would then bootstrap repo for CPC.
  * No objections.

* proposal: move expectations to stage 3 [#108](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/pull/108)
  * Discussed in last meeting, only changes are those requested by board
  * Rather than landing in root, copy moved to artifacts directory 
  * Elements not covered in existing docs will then be extracted and added elsewhere
  * Myles any objections to landing. None.

* Agenda item - Collab Summit Session for the CPC? [#125](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/125)
  * It Collab summit, identified that CPC may want dedicated space 
  * Thought best place would be to ask in bootstrap team
  * Michael: might be concern if it is in parallel with other sessions.  
    But good idea to have first meeting as kickoff there.
  * Tierney, don’t want to make it synchronous as not everybody will
    be interested.
  * Adam last time there was a core group who participated for most of the
    time, so good not to have in parallel.
  * Myles, believe it would be good to have a session which the only meeting
    happening at the time.
  * Tracy, why not both.  One dedicated session and a second one which is
    actually the first meeting.  
  * Michael maybe one which is info/questions/answers and a second which is
    the actual first meeting.
  * Jory, submit a session for town hall style session (day1), then pre-meeting day 
    2 for first CPC meeting.
  * Myles will remove bootstrap agenda from item, Jory will submit session through 
    Submission form.

* Project Housekeeping: Create Checklist for New Projects / Updating Existing Projects [#121](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/121)
  * Covers tasks that projects will need to complete as part of move to OpenJS Foundation
  * 

* Steps to bootstrap CPC and new Foundation [#115](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/115)
  * Michael provided quick overview of steps completed
  * Next is documenting list of projects/stages that they are in
    * Tierney, put into separate project?
    * Myles maybe doc in CPC repo or in main README.md?
    * Since CPC maintains project list.
    * Jory, over the years have had requests to use local/mark etc. and something
      to be said to having repository which is brand guide and proper way of using them
    * Myles, primary concern is that CPC maintains the list it should be in the  same repo’
      but other things like branding and marking could be a different repo.
    * Consensus now to put the table into main repo.  
    * Discussion around whether to use bootstrap for that or create cpc repo?
    * Jory to create new file called “PROJECTS.md” in bootstrap repo with initial list. 
    * Michael will take action to create PR for landing common code of conduct in OpenJS org
   * New Zoom, Youtube, no update this week, 
   * First meeting is targeted at collab summit
   * already talked about checklist for projects.
   * Jory what else can we do to help projects get ready and keep them existed.
   * Myles, do we need to wait until CPC bootstrap to engage
   * Michael if people from new projects are interested, let’s make sure they know
     they can show up.
   * Myles, ok to invite people who are not yet part of the a project to join.
   * Myles, maybe have a way to state “intent to join”, then they can start participating.
     Expectation needs to be clear that there are no guarantees.
     * Also may need to qualify that they can participate but not be part of final consensus
       Seeking.
  * Jory what about projects who are not yet ready to be publicly stating they are ready
    to join.
  * Myles action to put proposal on to include projects as the first step.


  

