# OpenJS Foundation Bootstrap Team Meeting 2019-04-08

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Td3s94nFRK8
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/150

## Present


* Rich Trott (@Trott)
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Mike Dolan
* George Adams (@gdams)
* Joe Sepi (@joesepi)
* Manil Chowdhury (@keywordnew)
* Russ Schlossbach
* Kris Borchers (@kborchers)
* Christian Bromann (@bromann)
* Steven Ayr
* Brian Warner
* Hassan Sani (@inidaname)

## Agenda

### Announcements
 
*Extracted from **bootstrap-agenda** labeled issues and pull requests from the **openjs-foundation org** prior to the meeting.

* no announcements this week.

### openjs-foundation/bootstrap

* OpenJS Foundation Executive Director Job Description [#151](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/151)
  * Brian: Updated from past version, wanted to get community feedback.
  * Have a few people who have indicated they are interested so would like to get it out to 
    see if there are others
  * Worked through a number of the comments that are being discussed in github.

* Infrastructure: Mailing lists [#134](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/134)
  * Brian having been working on getting pieces in place
  * Current lists:
    * announce@ 
    * report@
    * coc-escalation@
    * projects@
    * cpc-private@  
  * Also created announcement list for key interested parties in the project. Once get list
     of current people that she is emailing.

* Create process for new projects joining foundation [#130](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/130)
  * no updates in the issues, and Myles could not make it this week so defer to next week.

* Review meeting times [#129](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/129)
  * Spreadsheet created, but only 3 people have filled in entries, please go fill out.
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12e8lN9ywi-2kAtcW08WS3x3S-6TXiOO8_yxs3j0Sm2E/edit#gid=553742071

* Project Housekeeping: Create Checklist for New Projects / Updating Existing Projects [#121](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/121)
  * Agreed PR is ready to land. Michael will take action to land later today.

* Steps to bootstrap CPC and new Foundation [#115](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/115)
  * Good progress on email lists as discussed earlier
  * Have confirmed initial impact projects, Michael will land update for express and then
    it’s done
  * Youtube is setup, don’t have credentials yet
  * Chasing down zoom accounts, should.
  * Checklists for projects, looks complete no objections to landing, can be updated later
    if needed.
  * Work to identify initial CPC representatives. Jory opened issues to ping the projects other
    than Node.js to help identify reps.  Michael will try to push forward issue in Node.js org
    to agree on process for electing Node.js reps.
  * Manil - based on discussion on report alias is used. Would be good to have a process
    written down. Manil can put something together.

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.


