# OpenJS Foundation Bootstrap Team Meeting 2019-05-13

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M_5ZrRTqiiw
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/173

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
* Brian Warner (@brianwarner) 
* Tierney Cyren (@bnb)
* Eemeli Aro (@eemeli)
* Mike Dolan
* Jory Burson (@jorydotcom)
* Joe Sepi (@joesepi)
* Nick Oâ€™Leary
* Matteo Collina (@mcollina)

## Agenda

### Announcements
 
*Extracted from **bootstrap-agenda** labeled issues and pull requests from the **openjs-foundation org** prior to the meeting.

* Jory Collaborator summit, if you intended to go please register, currently around
  60 something last Tuesday.
  * https://www.eventbrite.com/e/openjs-collaborator-summit-tickets-55985971548
  * Password: collabsummit

* Mike still looking for executive director for, if you are interested please apply.

### openjs-foundation/bootstrap

* proposal: new project application process [#158](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/pull/158)
  * Next steps: Accommodate outstanding questions/comments and land in a little while.
  * A good start, once it lands, changes can be made as PRs.

* Voting CPC Representatives from Projects [#152](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/152)
  * Last week, all nominees and candidates are in.
  * Proposal to approve candidates as nominees for the first year, but some concerns about
    over-representation from a single entity.  Governance documents stipulate max 25% from a
    single entity.  If all candidates taken as nominees, one member would have 26% 
    representation.  Options include reducing one candidate from the company, or
    increase size by one.  Historically in Node, the company with too many reps was
    asked to reduce by one.
  * Action: Continue discussion in #152 where the issue was raised, make formal call for
    consensus or non-objections.

* Create process for new projects joining foundation [#130](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/130)

* Review meeting times [#129](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/129)
  * Planning to call official meeting on the 20th, still need availability.
    * https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12e8lN9ywi-2kAtcW08WS3x3S-6TXiOO8_yxs3j0Sm2E/edit
    * Proposal: Alternate between 16:00 UTC and 19:00 UTC on Wednesdays

* Steps to bootstrap CPC and new Foundation [#115](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/115)
  * Voting system: Ranked or unranked?
    * Unranked system can help to reduce the slate
    * Ranked system often works better for smaller slates
    * To be addressed later
  * Mailing lists all created, ping Brian Warner for additional lists for teams and subteams
  * Project progression README still in progress
  * Only remaining item to complete before bootstrapping CPC is the balance of voting
    members.  Balance of issues moved to post-bootstrap 

* Travel fund usage for upcoming collaborator summit:
  * https://github.com/nodejs/admin/pull/363 ok to approve non node.js collaborators for this
    Summit.  Longer term we need to dicuss/agree on structure of travel fund across the OpenJS
    Foundation in https://github.com/openjs-foundation/bootstrap/issues/172

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.


